= Editor Configuration

The Editor Configurations permit to customize the contents of a Source in view and edit. 
Check the documentation of the {EditorConfiguration} model for the internals.
An {EditorConfiguration} is attached to a Source by parsing its leader, or falling back to default. 
Each {EditorConfiguration} has associated four property stacks: 

* Rules: cataloguing rules, ex. the default publication state of a new Source (not implemented! left for reference).
* Options: Editor options for each tag in a Source, ex. how many columns a text area for editing a tag should be.
* Labels: Labels for tags and internationalized abbreviations.
* Layout: Which tags to show in edit/view

=== Default configuration

The default behaviour of the {EditorConfiguration} is loaded from YAML files in <tt>config/editor_profiles/profiles.yml</tt>. 
This file contains a list of configuration stacks, eg:

 ---
 - :id: DefaultCH
   :name: Default (CH)
   :labels:
   - BasicLabels
   :rules:
   - BasicCataloguingRules
   :options:
   - BasicFormOptions
   :layout:
   - LayoutDefaultCH
   :filter:
     default: true


This example configures the default fallback. The main elements are:
* <tt>id</tt> - a string identification used internally (no spaces)
* <tt>name</tt> - The name shown in the web page
* <tt>labels</tt> - an array containing a list of YAML files from which to load the label configuration
* <tt>rules</tt> - as above, but for rules
* <tt>options</tt> - idem, for the options
* <tt>layout</tt> - idem, for the layout
* <tt>filter</tt> - Specifies the filter to see which Sources should be shown with this stack. Refer to the {EditorConfiguration} docs for more details.

Each of the YAML files abobe (in the list without .yml extension) will be searched in config/editor_profiles/configurations

=== Configuration customization

The default files do not need to be modified directly. 
Instead it is possibile to put all customizations in a user-specified dir into <tt>config/editor_profiles</tt>. 
This directory is configured in RISM::EDITOR_PROFILES in <tt>application.rb</tt>, for example RISM::EDITOR_PROFILES="ch" will set <tt>config/editor_profiles/ch</tt> as the custom config dir.
If <tt>config/editor_profiles/ch/profiles.yml</tt> is present, it will OVERRIDE COMPLETELY the default one in <tt>config/editor_profiles/default/profiles.yml</tt>. 
The files in <tt>configurations/</tt> on the other hand are overlayed: 
this means that if a file with the same name exists in <tt>default/configurations</tt> and <tt>RISM::EDITOR_PROFILES/configurations</tt>, the contents of the two will be merged together. 
This way, a completely new configuration can be made, or just a small piece can be overridden (eg. this is handy in labels).

=== Configuration

On operning the <tt>display/edit</tt> of a Source, the EditorConfigurations are cicled: 
if one matched the filter [leader] or filter [tag], it will be used for displaying/editing of that manuscript. 
If none is found, the configuration with filter [show] (for displaying) or filter [default] (for editing) will be used. 
Refer to {EditorConfiguration} for the configuration of :filter.

The first setting in the configuration shoul be the <tt>group_order</tt>, which specifies the display order of the various display/edit groups.

 --- !map:Settings 
 group_order: 
 - control
 [snip...]
	
So the {EditorConfiguration} that is loaded will be the first one that matches the Source leader, or the first one that is default. 
Once it is selected, all the other stacks are loaded. 
Each stack can specify one or more YAML files, but generally Rules, Options and Labels are shared between all views.

== General formatting rules for the embedded YAML data

Do not use tabs. 
Use 2 spaces for each level of indentation Mismatched indentation is a common source of bugs.
Lists always start on the next line (below the element name) and are lined up with the beginning of the element name. 
Each member of a list is prefixed with "- " (a dash followed by a space) e.g.:

 --- !map:Settings
 groups:
   dates:
     all_tags:
     - "033"
     - "518"
		
To override an element from a configuration higher up in the stack simply set the element to the desired value.
Stacking is non-destructive. For example:

config A:

 --- !map:Settings
 "123":
   label: A label
   role_at_least: "administrator" 
   
config B:

 --- !map:Settings
 "123":
   label: B label
	  
Config B is further down in the stack and so is applied later, meaning the tag will ultimately use the label "B label". 
However, the tag will still be restricted to administrator access as config B did not override that value and omitting it does not remove it.

== Rules
There are the basic cataloguing rules, this is the default configuration:
	
 --- !map:Settings 
 cataloguer: 
   published_state_after_save: unpublished
   published_state_after_create: unpublished
	
At the top level a Rules configuration may contain one of these three elements in addition to its normal settings:

* cataloguer
* editor
* administrator

Settings within the above sections will only apply to the named role. 
Any setting not in these groups (i.e. at the top level with no indentation) will be applied globally (to everyone).

* published_state_after_create: <wf_stage value>
* published_state_after_save: <wf_stage value>

== Labels
Labels for tag field/subfield names and group namesmust be quoted wherever they are used. e.g. "001", "100", "789", "a", "4" etc.

* label: <label text>
* accepts: <LIST of tag names>

Example:

 --- !map:Settings 
 
 "doc_abbreviations": !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
   label: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
     de: "Abkürzungen"
     en: "Abbreviations"
 028: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
   label: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
     it: Numero dell'editore
     fr: "Numéro d'éditeur"
     de: Verlagsnummer
     en: Publisher Number
   fields: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
     a: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
       label: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
         it: Numero di lastra
         fr: "Numéro de plaque"
         de: Plattennummer
         en: Plate number
 "100": !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
   label: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
     it: Compositore/Autore
     fr: Compositeur/Auteur
     de: Komponist/Autor
     en: Composer/Author
   accepts: 
   - "700"
   fields: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
     a: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
       label: !map:HashWithIndifferentAccess 
         it: Nome
         fr: Nom
         de: Name
         en: Name

Example:

 --- !map:Settings 
 "000": 
   tag: tag_no_subfield
   tag_params: 
     editor_only: true
   tag_header: none
 "001": 
   tag: tag_no_subfield
   tag_params: 
     read_only: true
   tag_header: none
 "110": 
   layout: 
     fields: 
     - - a
       - type: institution
         editor_partial: subfield_secondary
         cols: 2
     - - b
       - cols: 1
     columns: 3
		
== Layout:
At the top level a Layout contains settings that pertain to the overall layout:

* arrange: <"columns" or "list" or "tabs">
* single_column_order: <"riffle" or "append">
* group_order: <LIST of group names>
* groups: <NESTED LAYOUT CONFIGURATION>

The groups: section defines the groups of tags that will run together in the form. 
These groups may materialize as panels or tabs etc. depending on the layout template used. 
Each element in groups is a named group (containing only lowercase letters and underscore). 
This name is referred to by the group_order layout setting. 
Within each of these named groups a number of settings are available:

* label: <label text>
* all_tags: <LIST of tag names>

Example: 

 groups: 
   group_administration: 
     all_tags: 
     - "000"
     - "001"
     - "003"
     - 008
     - "040"
     - "599"
     admin_only: true
   group_linking: 
     all_tag_templates: 
       "775": show_related_editions
     all_tags: 
     - "775"
   group_works: 
     all_tag_templates: 
       "600": show_work
     all_tags: 
     - "600"
