##### The Muscat guidelines are now available on [guidelines.rism.info](https://guidelines.rism.info/index.html) but currently only in English and German. Translations are in preparation and will be made available in due time. 

##### You will find the translations in the Muscat cataloging interface when you click the question mark for each field. 

##### The "Guidelines" link in the top menu bar will take you to the RISM Cataloging Guidelines website.

## Welcome to Muscat 11!
This major update brings many enhancements for Muscat catalogers.

* In fields with autocomplete, a number appears next to the term that shows how often the term is used in Muscat.
  * The terms are ordered by frequency to identify the most common terms faster.
* Printed editions with links to digitized versions are easier to identify.
* As you page forwards or backwards through records, a counter will tell you where you are in your list of results.
* Multiple browser tabs in Muscat:
  * It is now possible to have different searches in different open tabs.
  * Searches do not interfere with each other.
* Muscat will warn you if you try to log out when multiple tabs are open. 
* Export of folders in MARCXML has been improved.
* In full record views, place names are displayed next to institutions (such as **Universität, Innsbruck** rather than just **Universität**).
* Field names were updated, clarified, and unified across Muscat areas.
* New languages and countries in the drop-down menus: Turkish, Benin, Bolivia, Ghana, Liechtenstein, Peru, Suriname, Uganda.
* A new search box is available for the record owners: just start typing and the options appear.
* For citing identifiers from the Bibliothèque nationale de France, the ARK resolver format has been standardized.
* The occasional error "Error in validation process" has been fixed.
* Improvements to the authority file for Works: validations, attribution qualifiers, functions, relationships, language codes, work catalog notes.
* The unused field 100$w (Status) in Personal names was removed.
* Special thanks once again to Ferran Jorba and his team (Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona) for their contributions to Muscat!

This release of Muscat also includes many more enhancements. Please refer to the changelog for the complete list of [changes.](https://github.com/rism-digital/muscat/blob/master/CHANGELOG)