## Welcome to Muscat 10.0!
This major update brings many enhancements for Muscat catalogers.

* Current filters appear at the top of the search pages.
* A new field, Duplicated from (981), keeps track of the RISM ID used when duplicating a record.
* Material groups can now be deleted in Sources.
* Material groups can be collapsed or expanded in Sources.
* A new field, Contributing project (910), can be used in Sources to increase the visibility of cataloging projects. 
* Images can now be added to holdings.
* A new help box is available for digital objects.
* Improved search in Secondary Literature
* New options are available in drop-down menus: Ojibwa in the language fields (041), oblong duodecimo in Book format (340$m), and Patron in Additional personal names (700) and Additional institutions (710).
* The field Language of libretto (041$e) in Sources was removed. All languages of a source belong in the field Language of text (041$a).
* MARC subfields are visible in the Edit mode.
* The full record view, MARC21 view, and MARCXML view have been improved and are readily accessible.
* The faceted search (which used the Blacklight engine) has been deprecated and removed.
* Record leaders have been revised in Sources. 
* In the holdings for librettos and treatises, the Content type (593$b) now matches the template type. 
* Items can be added or removed from folders when viewing a record.
* Improved searchability of internal note fields (599) across Muscat
* Special thanks to Ferran Jorba and his team (Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona) for their contributions to Muscat!

This release of Muscat also includes many more enhancements. Please refer to the [changelog](https://github.com/rism-ch/muscat/blob/master/CHANGELOG)  for the complete list of changes.